แผนที่ · ปฏิทิน — TWO DOORS ON A SEARCH RESULT
WO-77. 2026-09-08. Built and tested. Two lines still to apply in build.py.

    You: "open in map and open in calendar should be a clear link for boolean
    search results, and they should behave in a way that makes sense to
    humans." Then: "too many words already in preview. Don't we have bespoke
    SVGs on file for icons? Why are we using system emojis still?"


1. WHAT WAS THERE

Two bare emoji in the results heading — 🗺 and 📍 — with no word beside
either, hidden until they were not, and labelled only in an aria-label that
none but a screen reader ever read. No calendar door at all. The events
standing at a place were already fetched and painted into an opened row as
🎪 lines, and there was no way to take them.


2. WHAT IS THERE NOW

Under the count, one wrapping line:

    [map]  แผนที่ · map (80 / 1,796)      [cal]  ปฏิทิน · calendar (3)

Both are links, underlined, 36 px tall, in the link colour. The icons are
#i-map and #i-cal out of the sprite already on every page — drawn, taking
the link's own colour, the same two marks the rest of the site uses.

MAP draws THESE results on the map already sitting above them, then reads
ซ่อนแผนที่ · hide map until it is tapped again. Not the city map with its
shelves switched on: that is a different question wearing the same word, and
handing it over is the parking bug in another coat.

80 / 1,796 is the honest pair. 80 is what the map will draw; 1,796 is the
answer. The difference is rows with no pin and rows past the two hundred the
map is handed — unmeasured, not absent. Two numbers and a slash rather than
"80 จาก 1,796 · 80 of 1,796", which is what a bilingual join costs when both
halves are the same two numbers.

CALENDAR hands over the events standing at these places as one .ics file,
named after the search. Every VEVENT it writes was checked against the
events.ics build.py shipped: 201 of 201 match to the byte. Two of those 201
were found by that check and fixed — a blank line folded differently, and a
description cut at 400 code UNITS where Python cuts at 400 characters, which
put five events' descriptions two emoji short.

NEITHER DOOR IS DRAWN AT ZERO. No pin in the answer, no map door. Nothing on
at any of these places, no calendar door. An offer that goes nowhere is the
one thing a reader cannot test before tapping.

WHAT IT COSTS A READER: nothing until they tap. The calendar count comes off
a 2 kB table baked into search.html; the 260 kB of event records is fetched
by the reader who taps and by nobody else.


3. THE NUMBER YOU SHOULD KNOW BEFORE YOU LIKE THIS

75 places in 88,161 carry an event. So the calendar door will not appear on
most searches — it appears when the answer contains one of those 75. That is
the corpus, not the door: 201 events, 139 of them tied to a place. If the
door should appear more often, the work is in the event harvest, not here.


4. THE EMOJI, SINCE YOU ASKED

The sprite has 42 drawn icons. The Python still writes 744 emoji into
reader-facing markup across 31 files — 341 of them in build.py. The
commonest are 🐜×80, 📍×39, ☎×29, 🏷×20, 🌐×19. At least 📍 has a drawn
twin sitting unused in the sprite (#i-pin), and #i-cal was there before
tonight and had never been used at all. This is a job, not a line: I have
not touched any of it outside these two doors.


5. TWO LINES FOR WHOEVER GETS build.py NEXT

build.py was edited at 09:59 with a build running since 09:49 and two more
processes on it since, so nothing here touched it.

  (a) THE MAP DOOR NEEDS NOTHING. It arrives through the panel_mount() call
      build.py already makes, and refine.js and style.css are already
      composed from this module. Next build and it is there.

  (b) THE CALENDAR DOOR needs its table. In the search.html block, beside
      the maphead line:

        f'<script type="application/json" id="evplaces">'
        f'{refine_layer.event_places_json(EVENTS)}</script>'

      Without it the door is not drawn and nothing is fetched.

  (c) THE OLD BUTTON, in the same <h1>. This is now the same door twice:

        <button type="button" id="resmapbtn" aria-label="แผนที่ · map" hidden>🗺</button>

      Keep the button — the door drives it — but drop it out of sight with
      `class="vh"` rather than deleting it. The 📍 beside it (#resnear) is a
      different control and is left alone; it wants #i-pin and a word, which
      is item 4's job.

  Then: python3 tests/test_refine.py — 71 cases, no build needed.


6. FORKS — yours

  D1  THE WORDS. "แผนที่ · map" and "ปฏิทิน · calendar" are as short as a
      noun gets. The verb versions ("ดูบนแผนที่", "ใส่ปฏิทิน") say what will
      happen and cost two more words each. I took the nouns on tonight's
      instruction; say the word and they go back.

  D2  WHERE THE ROW SITS. Under the count, above the search tools. It could
      sit under the tools instead, which puts the answer's count and the
      first row closer together and the doors further from the eye.

  D3  THE MAP OPENS IN PLACE. Tapping does not leave the page. If you want
      "open in map" to mean the city map at map.html, that map does not
      carry the index and would have to load 51 MB to draw an arbitrary
      answer. It is a real piece of work, not a link change.
