MOTDANG.NET — THE FRONT PAGE, REBUILT
2026-09-19, night. LIVE at motdang.net.

Plan and your five answers: go/home-plan.

THE PICTURES DO NOT MOVE (your call, 2026-09-19)
  There is one picture layer for the whole page. It is pinned to the screen
  and knows nothing about scrolling, so it cannot drift or lag: the words
  move over a photograph that is standing still. Passing from one scene to
  the next fades the frame, never slides it. The two tile sections have
  their own ground, so the last frame simply waits behind them.

WHAT IS ON THE PAGE
  hero      one of your frames by the hour · มดแดง · the clock in Bangkok
            time and the B.E. date · the day's colour as a dot · the moon ·
            temp · PM2.5 in its band colour · the two city pills
  ตอนนี้     open right now (count and the day's curve) · the next event ·
            the next market · wan phra · the next two festivals ·
            the red phone. PM over the PCD line puts clean-air rooms first;
            22:00–05:00 puts 1669 first.
  ใกล้ๆ     the city chosen for the reader (your choice, else the edge's
            guess, else Chiang Mai). One tap: the nearest open food, wat,
            market, massage, clinic within 1 km, by the hour.
  วันนี้     one card: colour · planet · Buddha posture · moon · lucky pair.
            Opens to the Chinese pillar and the hexagram, and the doors to
            horoscope, nine wats, katha, lottery, siam si.
  เจาะลึก   the Loop · Muay Thai · Hand Poke · festivals · nine wats ·
            horoscope · toilets · dust · plan · help — as picture tiles.
  ทุกชั้น    28 shelves as picture tiles with the count for the chosen city;
            the dice; the door to all.html.
  footer    add · chat · source · elsewhere · API · CC BY · OSM · date ·
            picture credits.

No search box. Nine words stay; everything else is a name, a number or a
picture. ไทย / +EN / EN and อา as before, the same two keys.

THE PICTURES FOLLOW THE READER
  Standing somewhere: the frames shot within a kilometre win, then five,
  then fifteen. Past fifty from both cities the page shows only the iconic
  set — 28 of the 49 backgrounds. Position is the exact fix once you tap
  📍, otherwise Cloudflare's own idea of where the request came from, which
  costs no prompt and no permission. Verified live tonight: the edge said
  Chiang Mai and the front page drew a shrine shot 800 m away. Faked a
  stand at Wat Phra Singh and all five scenes changed to frames from that
  square kilometre.

  64 of your own frames, from the Photos library on this Mac (1,457 of your
  photos carry a Chiang Mai or Chiang Rai position; 1,266 have a 1024 px
  preview here; originals are in iCloud). Chosen by eye from the top 300 by
  Photos' own aesthetic score with faces excluded: no skin, no tattoos, no
  documents, no signatures, no home interiors, no paintings.
  Coordinates: every frame ships one rounded to three decimals, about
  110 m — that is what makes the geofence work. The frames from around your
  own house are in it on your word, 2026-09-19, so a reader standing near
  there gets your sunsets and the dusk road.
  The 145 Commons picks fill the shelves that have no frame of yours;
  their credits print in the footer.
  Veto any frame: name it, I pull it. Contact sheet of the 72:
  docs/site/hero/ (the file names say what they are).

FILES
  home_layer.py                 the page; python3 home_layer.py rebuilds it
  importers/make_hero.py        your frames → docs/site/hero
  data/curated/hero_picks.json  the roster (private coordinates)
  publish/home.py               homepage-only publish: --yes to send
  publish/worker.js             fills md-where on the front page (edge geo)
  tests/test_home.py            20 checks, green
  build.py                      index.html now comes from home_layer

PUBLISHED 2026-09-19 22:17 and again 22:39 (index.html + 64 frames) and the
Worker at 22:18, version 6805d54a.
  To publish again:  python3 publish/home.py --yes
  Rollback: git checkout docs/index.html && python3 publish/home.py --yes

CONTRAST
  Every word sits on one surface, never on a photograph. Against the worst a
  photograph could be — pure white — the body text reads at 10.9:1, the grey
  at 8.3:1, the gold at 7.4:1. AA asks for 4.5 and AAA for 7. The test
  computes all three from the stylesheet on every build, so it cannot drift.

THE SHELF PICTURES, AND WHAT WAS KEPT
  The first pass gave all twenty-eight shelves a photograph because all
  twenty-eight could have one. A mossy demon mask stood over Beauty & Hair,
  a temple guardian over Pets, a horoscope wheel over Tattoo & Sak Yant, a
  hillside of flowers over Elephants. Nine of the twenty-eight were right.
  You asked for it to be kept:
    https://archive.org/details/motdang-shelves-2026-09-19
    https://web.archive.org/web/20260919154845/https://motdang.net/
  The item holds a self-contained copy of the page that needs no server, a
  full-resolution screenshot, the mapping table that produced it, and an
  article naming what is in each picture. All CC BY 4.0.

  Fixed the same night. A shelf now gets a photograph of the thing itself or
  no photograph at all. Nine get none and draw a plain panel with their name
  and count: doctors, cannabis, schools, international schools, beauty,
  pets, sport, elephants, home services. Nothing on file shows any of those.
  The rest show the subject — a massage over Massage, a hostel room over
  Hotels, Warorot over Markets, two fighters over Muay Thai, a cooking class
  over Cooking, a ceramics workshop over Doing Business, the Lanna folklife
  museum over Museums, a sak yant shop over Tattoo.

OPEN
  · Your originals at full size: Photos → Settings → "Download Originals"
    would let make_hero.py write 2400 px frames instead of 1024. Not needed
    for legibility; it would sharpen the big backgrounds on a desk screen.
  · More frames. 1,266 of your Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai photos have a
    preview on this Mac and I used 64. Point me at a place or a month and
    I will cut another set.
  · The nine plain panels. A photograph of a clinic waiting room, a salon,
    a gym, a school gate, an elephant that is not a statue, would each fill
    one. Yours or Commons, your call which.
  · Anywhere else the archive copy should go. It is on archive.org and in
    the repo. Posting it somewhere public reads as you speaking, so that
    one is yours.
