ของเล่น · TOYS — a download shelf on motdang.net
WO-75, built 2026-09-07 night.  Nothing deployed.


WHAT YOU ASKED FOR

  "motdang.net should also be a place to download widgets and apps.  I'm not
   on the app store or play store... I have a ton of toys I'd like to make
   available for download (some paid).  We keep them on motdang.net, and we
   should be able to find them.  But not a lot of words.  Maybe make it a
   category for the boolean search."


WHAT IS BUILT

  /get.html          the shelf.  One card per toy: glyph, name, one line,
                     what it runs on, and one button carrying either the
                     size or the price.  No lede, no explainer, no
                     invitation.  The only prose on the page is one drawer
                     at the foot explaining the single nod Android asks for
                     when a file did not come from a store, and it only
                     appears when there is an .apk on the shelf.

  the box            typing "toys", "ของเล่น", "almanac", "ปฏิทิน", "billiards"
                     or a toy's name now finds the toy, ranked against the
                     places on the same scale.  The toys group under their
                     own heading, and ?cat=dl shows them and nothing else —
                     the category you asked for.  Tapping the category chip
                     on any toy row is the same filter.

  ☰ menu             "⬇️ ของเล่น · Toys" sits beside Widgets under มดแดง.

  data/curated/downloads.json    the register.  Hand-editable.  You add a
                     toy by adding an object; nothing else is touched.


WHAT IS ON THE SHELF TONIGHT — five, and they are the five I could VERIFY
tonight, not a judgement about which of your toys belong here.

  🚻 ห้องน้ำใกล้ฉัน · Nearest toilet     1.0 MB   the Android app, already live
  🌕 วันเมือง · Lanna Almanac             34 kB   one file, plays and saves
  🎱 สามชิ่ง · Sam Ching                  28 kB   one file
  📼 blinky1200                           99 kB   one file
  🔘 blinky                               31 kB   one file

Each of the four HTML ones was checked to be genuinely self-contained: it
references nothing outside itself but its own icon.  It runs from
motdang.net/get/<name>.html AND it saves to disk and still runs.  So "Play"
is the button and the size beside it is the keeping.

Struck from the shelf before it was built, and why: Telltale.  I could not
tell from the file what it is, and I will not write a description of a toy
I have not read.  Say the sentence and it goes on.


HOW YOU ADD THE NEXT ONE

    {
      "id": "coucal",                       one word, becomes the URL anchor
      "glyph": "🕰",
      "name": ["นาฬิกานกกระปูด", "Coucal Clock"],
      "line": ["...ไทย...", "...English, one line..."],
      "on": ["web"],                        android · ios · web · desktop · print
      "src": "coucal-clock/out/face.html",  path from the projects folder
      "k": "extra words the search should match"
    }

  A paid one takes two more fields and nothing else:

      "price": 250,
      "buy": "https://<wherever the money goes>"

  Size, version and fingerprint are never typed.  They are read off the
  bytes that actually ship, every build, so the page cannot claim a version
  the file does not carry.


THE THREE REFUSALS, each of which is a row NOT rendered

  no file, no link    a toy naming nothing a reader can have.
  priced, no rail     a price with no buy URL would print ฿250 with nothing
                      to tap.  Held until there is somewhere to tap.
  "draft": true       the valve.  A half-packaged toy renders nowhere.

  Every refusal is printed in the build log by id, so a toy that quietly
  stopped shipping is visible rather than merely absent.


THE FORK THAT IS YOURS — HOW THE PAID ONES GET PAID

  Nothing above depends on this.  `buy` is any URL, so the shelf ships
  free toys today and the paid ones the day you pick a rail.

  A  Ko-fi shop            already yours, already in the footer.  No code,
                           no account for the buyer.  Ko-fi takes 0% on the
                           free tier for shop sales but the payment
                           processor still takes its cut; delivery is
                           Ko-fi's own download link, off motdang.net.
                           Cheapest to start, least control, and the file
                           then lives somewhere you do not run.

  B  Gumroad / Lemon Squeezy    hosted checkout, hosted delivery, VAT
                           handled for you.  ~5–10% plus processing.  Same
                           trade as A with a better shop page, and Lemon
                           Squeezy is the merchant of record, which is the
                           part that matters if a Thai or EU tax question
                           ever arrives.

  C  Stripe payment link + a Worker that mints a signed R2 URL
                           ~3.65% + ฿11 in Thailand, no platform cut, the
                           file never leaves motdang.net, and the buyer
                           never leaves either.  Costs a day of work in the
                           worker you already run.  It is the only one of
                           the three where a customer email is yours.

  Expiry: none.  The shelf works without an answer.  What it cannot do is
  advertise a price with no way to pay, and it refuses to.

  Not priced here because it is not mine to price: whether any of these
  toys should be paid at all.


WHAT HAS NOT HAPPENED

  * NOT DEPLOYED.  It is built out — a full build at 22:14 wrote /get.html,
    the five files and the search rows — but DO-NOT-DEPLOY-2026-09-07.txt
    stands until you have seen what 88,161 records do to the site, and the
    two search failures above stand between here and a deploy whoever fixes
    them.
  * BOTH SUITES HAVE NOW RUN.  tests/test_downloads.py: all green against
    the real 22:14 build.  tests/test_search.py: 40 of 42 cases pass; the
    two that fail are the FOLD, not the toys — 'zzzzqqq' matches 16 rows
    instead of nothing, and 'kow soi' loosens to 343.  Proved rather than
    assumed: the identical suite with my five rows emptied to [] fails the
    same two cases with the same counts and the same example row.  Written
    into DO-NOT-DEPLOY-2026-09-07.txt for the session measuring the fold.
  * get/ is excluded from three site-wide checks — test_alt_text,
    test_chuai, test_publish_gate — because the files in it are the toys
    themselves, published byte-for-byte, and making somebody's game pass
    this site's page checks would mean editing the game.  Instead the
    layer counts images with no alt text in each hosted toy and prints the
    count in the build line.  Tonight: none.
  * get/ is kept out of sitemap.xml for the same reason — /get.html is in
    it, and that is the page that lists them.
